What is a Virtual Machine?
Is a resource that uses software instead of a physical computer to run programs or apps. Each VM has its own operating system and functions separately, so you can have more than one VM per machine. Can be used to test applications in a safe, separate environment. Works by using software to simulate virtual hardware and run on a host machine.

What is the difference between aptitude and APT (Advanced Packaging Tool)?
Aptitude is a high-level package manager while APT is lower level which can be used by other higher level package managers
Aptitude is smarter and will automatically remove unused packages or suggest installation of dependent packages
Apt will only do explicitly what it is told to do in the command line
What is AppArmor?
Linux security system that provides Mandatory Access Control (MAC) security. Allows the system admin to restrict the actions that processes can perform. It is included by default with Debian. Run aa-status to check if it is running.

Password Rules
For the password rules, we use the password quality checking library and there are two files the common-password file which sets the rules like upper and lower case characters, duplicate characters etc and the login.defs file which stores the password expiration rules (30 days etc). Sudo nano /etc/login.defs Sudo nano /etc/pam.d/common-password

What is LVM
Logical Volume Manager – allows us to easily manipulate the partitions or logical volume on a storage device.

UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall)
UFW is a interface to modify the firewall of the device without compromising security. You use it to configure which ports to allow connections to and which ports to close. This is useful in conjunction with SSH, can set a specific port for it to work with.

What is SSH?
SSH or Secure Shell is an authentication mechanism between a client and a host. It uses encryption techniques so that all communication between clients and hosts is done in encrypted form. User on Mac or Linux can use SSH the terminal to work on their server via SSH.

What is Cron?
Cron or cron job is a command line utility to schedule commands or scripts to happen at specific intervals or a specific time each day. Useful if you want to set your server to restart at a specific time each day.

cd /usr/local/bin – to show monitoring.sh
sudo crontab -u root -e – to edit the cron job
change script to */1 * * * * sleep 30s && script path – to run it every 30 seconds, delete the line to stop the job from running.
Evaluation Commands for UFW, Group, Host, lsblk and SSH
sudo ufw status
sudo systemctl status ssh
getent group sudo
getent group user42
sudo adduser new username
sudo groupadd groupname
sudo usermod -aG groupname username
sudo chage -l username - check password expire rules
hostnamectl
hostnamectl set-hostname new_hostname - to change the current hostname
Restart your Virtual Machine.
sudo nano /etc/hosts - change current hostname to new hostname
lsblk to display the partitions
dpkg -l | grep sudo – to show that sudo is installed
sudo ufw status numbered
sudo ufw allow port-id
sudo ufw delete rule number
ssh your_user_id@127.0.0.1 -p 4242	
